Ingredients
SERVINGS: 4
¼ cup pecans
4 tablespoons vegetable oil, divided, plus more for frying (about 4 cups)
3 green plantains, peeled, halved crosswise, thinly sliced on a mandoline
Kosher salt
½ pound green beans, trimmed, cut into 3-inch pieces
2 carrots, thinly sliced on a diagonal
1 ½-inch piece ginger, finely grated
2 garlic cloves, finely grated
2 cups apple cider
½ cup red curry paste
2 tablespoons fish sauce (such as nam pla or nuoc nam), divided
5 scallions, green and white parts separated, thinly sliced on a diagonal
1 Fresno chile, thinly sliced
1 pound boneless, skinless chicken thighs, cut into 1-inch pieces
¾ cup rye whiskey
Cilantro leaves with tender stems (for serving)
Special Equipment
A deep-fry thermometer

Preparation
Preheat oven to 350°. Toast pecans on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing once, until browned and fragrant, 8–10 minutes. Let cool slightly, then chop and set aside.
Meanwhile, pour oil into a medium heavy pot to come 3" up the sides; fit pot with deep-fry thermometer. Heat oil over high until thermometer registers 350°. Fry plantains, turning occasionally, until golden and just beginning to brown, about 2 minutes. Transfer to paper towels and season with salt; set aside.
Cook green beans in a large pot of boiling salted water until crisp-tender, 1 minute. Transfer to a medium bowl. Cook carrots in same pot until crisp-tender, 3 minutes. Transfer to another medium bowl.
Whisk ginger, garlic, apple cider, curry paste, and 1 Tbsp. fish sauce in a medium bowl until smooth.
Heat 1 Tbsp. oil in a wok or large skillet over high and cook green beans, tossing, until just browned, about 1 minute. Transfer to a large bowl. Heat 1 Tbsp. oil and cook carrots, scallion whites, and chile, tossing occasionally, until softened, about 1 minute; transfer to bowl with green beans. Heat remaining 2 Tbsp. oil and cook chicken, tossing frequently, until just browned, 4–5 minutes.
Remove pan from heat and carefully pour in rye whiskey. Extending your arm fully so that your body is as far away as possible from pan, return pan to heat and tilt skillet slightly to ignite alcohol. Flames will rise about 1' above pan before dying out, about 4 minutes. Add ginger mixture, bring to a boil, and cook, stirring occasionally, until sauce has reduced and thickened and chicken is cooked through, 8–10 minutes. Add reserved vegetables and remaining 1 Tbsp. fish sauce and toss until heated through and coated with sauce, about 1 minute; season with salt. Transfer to a serving platter and top with scallion greens, reserved pecans and plantains, and cilantro.
Recipe by Bon Appétit